Product tour (#3065)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/administration/back_office/configure_product_tour.md

Use the `ibexa_integrated_help` translation domain.

For all the examples below, you can provide the translations by creating a `translations/ibexa_integrated_help.en.yaml` file with the following content:

``` yaml
title: "Welcome!"
subtitle: "This is the subtitle"
tour.step.description: "This is the description of the step, you can use it to explain what to do in this step."
tour.link.documentation: "Documentation link"
tour.list.title: "This is the list title"
tour.list.item1: "First item"
tour.list.item2: "Second item"
tour.list.item3: "Third item"
```

To insert a line break into a translation, HTML encode the `<br>` entities to `&lt;br/&gt;`.

## Scenario configuration

Each scenario must specify its type and can optionally restrict access by user groups.

### Scenario display order

The order of scenarios in the configuration file determines the order in which they are evaluated and, if the right conditions are met, displayed.

For **general scenario**, the scenario appears at the earliest opportunity (on any page after logging in), with an exception of the user settings area.

> For **targeted scenarios**, the scenario begins if the target element is found in the DOM.

Reviewer: Here too, with the exception of the user settings area.

```yaml hl_lines="6 10"
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 0, 14) =]]
```

### Targeted tour steps

Targeted tour steps highlight specific UI elements using CSS selectors.
You can select a specific element by using the `target` setting.

```yaml hl_lines="6 10"
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/targetable_scenario.yaml', 0, 15) =]]
```

If a step's target element doesn't exist on the page, the step isn't be displayed and the scenario is be stopped.
Ensure your configuration matches the actual DOM structure to avoid broken scenarios.
Use unique selectors to avoid triggering your scenarios on other pages.

#### Interaction modes

Select how the scenario step interacts with the target element by using the `interaction_mode` setting.
Targeted steps support [three interaction modes](product_tour.md#targeted-scenarios):

TODO: 2 pane screenshot here, showing the UI for each of types.

!!! note

    Clickable and draggable modes are designed for single actions only (buttons, links).
    You can't select an entire form.

>     If the interaction with the highlighted element results in redirection to a new page or opening a modal window where the previous target element can't be found, the "Previous" navigation step will be disabled.

Reviewer 2: the "Previous" navigation step will not be disabled.

TODO: Step screenshot with all 7 blocks available?

### Title block

Display bold, prominent titles:

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 11, 14) =]]
```

### Text block

Display regular text content:

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 14, 17) =]]
```

### Link block

Add external or internal links:

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 17, 21) =]]
```

### List block

Create bulleted lists with title:

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 29, 36) =]]
```

The `title_translation_key` property is optional.

### Media blocks

To provide data to the media block, place your image or video files in the `public` directory and provide the relative path to it.

!!! tip

    To resolve the path relative to the site root, [prefix it with `/`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL_API/Resolving_relative_references#root_relative).

#### Image block

Embed images with alternative text:

```yaml

> [[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 21, 25) =]]

Reviewer 2: wouldn't be better to give a example with asset added to public folder. Before block give example that 'I add a photo  `public/img/welcome.jpg` and in config put `img/welcome.jpg`

---
description: Configure custom product tour scenarios with steps, blocks, and interaction modes.
edition: lts-update
month_change: false
---

# Configure product tour scenarios

You can configure the product tour scenarios to adapt it to your project needs, covering different onboarding scenarios.

Product tour scenarios are configured with YAML configuration files.
Configuration is SiteAccess-aware, allowing you to create separate onboarding experiences for different back offices in [multisite setups](multisite.md).

For more advanced customization cases that require PHP code, see [Customize product tour](customize_product_tour.md).

Use the default provided configuration, available in `config/packages/ibexa_integrated_help_tours.yaml`, as a starting point that you can adjust to your needs.

## Configuration structure

> Configure product tour scenarios under the `ibexa.system.<siteaccess>.product_tour` key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You configure product tour scenarios under the `ibexa.system.<siteaccess>.product_tour` key.
```
"Configure ... " is a direct order. "You configure ..." is a statement of fact

Each scenario has a unique identifier and contains steps, which in turn contain blocks.

> Basic configuration structure of a scenario:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The basic configuration structure of a scenario is as follows:
```

```yaml
ibexa:
    system:
        <scope>>: # For example, admin or admin_group
            product_tour:
                <scenario_identifier>:
                    type: <general|targetable>
                    scenario_title_translation_key: <translation_key>  # Optional
                    user_groups_excluded: [<user_group_remote_content_id>, ...]  # Optional
                    steps:
                        <step_identifier>: # Scenario step, unique within a scenario
                            step_title_translation_key: <translation_key>
                            background_image: <image_path>  # Only for general type, optional
                            target: <css_selector>  # Only for targetable type, required
                            interaction_mode: <null|clickable|draggable>  # Only for targetable type, optional
                            blocks:
                                - type: <block_type>
                                  params:
                                      # Block-specific parameters
                                      # ...
```

The product tour scenarios are meant to be translatable.

> It's recommended to use translation keys instead of literal values in the YAML configuration, and provide the translations separately.

Reviewer 3: How about "Ibexa recommends..."? I don't like "we recommend", which prevails in our doc, but would suggest trying to eliminate passive voice

Use the `ibexa_integrated_help` translation domain.

For all the examples below, you can provide the translations by creating a `translations/ibexa_integrated_help.en.yaml` file with the following content:

``` yaml
tour.my_general_scenario.title: "My general scenario"
title: "Welcome!"
subtitle: "This is the subtitle"
tour.step.description: "This is the description of the step, you can use it to explain what to do in this step."
tour.link.documentation: "Documentation link"
tour.list.title: "This is the list title"
tour.list.item1: "First item"
tour.list.item2: "Second item"
tour.list.item3: "Third item"
```

To insert a line break into a translation, HTML encode the `<br>` entities to `&lt;br/&gt;`.

## Scenario configuration

Each scenario must specify its type and can optionally restrict access by user groups.

### Scenario display order

The order of scenarios in the configuration file determines the order in which they are evaluated and, if the right conditions are met, displayed.

> For **general scenario**, the scenario appears at the earliest opportunity (on any page after logging in), with an exception of the user settings area.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the scenarios of `general` type, they appear at the earliest opportunity (on any page after logging in), with an exception of the user settings area.
```

> For **targeted scenarios**, the scenario begins if the target element is found in the DOM when the page is loaded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the scenarios of `targeted` type, they begin if their `target` element is found in the DOM when the page is loaded.
```

To remnd of a connection with the code sample above.

Targeted scenarios don't trigger in the user settings area as well.

To control where a targeted tour appears, ensure that the first step targets an element unique to that specific page.

> You can target elements that appear after a user action (for example, modals like [content browser](browser.md)), but the first step's target must be present in the DOM when the page is loaded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can target elements that appear after a user action, for example, modals like [content browser](browser.md), but the first step's target must be present in the DOM when the page is loaded.
```

Once a scenario ends, the system evaluates the next scenario from the configuration and, if applicable, displays it.

> ### Scenario type

Reviewer 3: Not sure if this section and link are necessary here, you've explained the behavior in lines 75 and 77. You could merge the two by moving the link to line 75 and attach it to "scenarios of `targeted` type" and the code snippet just after. these lines

Author: Removed this section, reworked the one before into a list - and added a link there. Thanks!

Set the scenario type to either `general` or `targetable` to [control how the scenario is displayed](product_tour.md#scenario-types).

```yaml
product_tour:
    welcome_tour:
        type: general
```

### Scenario title

> Use the optional `scenario_title_translation_key` field to provide a human-readable label for a scenario.

Reviewer 3: @wiewiurdp This setting should not be optional. If it is and the devs skip it, the users will be presented with "my_general_scenario" in the UI. I know Marek explains it below, but still, it may look ugly

This label is displayed in the user settings page where users can reset their product tour progress.

```yaml
product_tour:
    welcome_tour:
        type: general
        scenario_title_translation_key: tour.welcome_tour.title
```

If the translation key is not set, the raw scenario identifier is used as the label.

> Translations must be provided in the `ibexa_integrated_help` translation domain (for example, in `translations/ibexa_integrated_help.en.yaml`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Translations must be provided in the `ibexa_integrated_help` translation domain, for example, in `translations/ibexa_integrated_help.en.yaml`.
```

We tend to use as parentheses.

### User group restrictions

Restrict scenario visibility by excluding specific user groups by using their content remote IDs:

```yaml
product_tour:
    my_scenario:
        user_groups_excluded: ['user_group_content_remote_id_1', 'user_group_content_remote_id_2']  # Exclude specific user groups
```

> When creating new [back office user groups](user_registration.md#user-types), you should decide whether the existing product tour scenarios should be available for the new user group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When creating new [back office user groups](user_registration.md#user-types), decide whether the existing product tour scenarios should be available for these new user groups.
```

To avoid "should... should"

Since exposing a tour to unauthorized user groupsis so dangerous, shoudn't we add a warining in places where we discuss configuring groups?

For example, in user_registration.md and https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/user_management/manage_users/

You can select a specific element by using the `target` setting.

```yaml hl_lines="6 11"
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/targetable_scenario.yaml', 0, 15) =]]
```

If a step's target element doesn't exist on the page, the step isn't displayed and the scenario is stopped.
Ensure your configuration matches the actual DOM structure to avoid broken scenarios.
Use unique selectors to avoid triggering your scenarios on other pages.

#### Interaction modes

Select how the scenario step interacts with the target element by using the `interaction_mode` setting.
Targeted steps support [three interaction modes](product_tour.md#targeted-scenarios):

TODO: 2 pane screenshot here, showing the UI for each of types.

!!! note

    Clickable and draggable modes are designed for single actions only (buttons, links).
    You can't select an entire form.
    If the interaction with the highlighted element results in redirection to a new page or opening a modal window where the previous target element can't be found, the "Previous" navigation button won't be displayed.

**Standard mode**:

The default value. 

> A tooltip attached to specific element on the page is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A tooltip attached to a specific element on the page is displayed.
```

> Users continue the scenario with Previous/Next buttons:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Users continue the scenario with **Previous**/**Next** buttons:
```

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/targetable_scenario.yaml', 8, 16) =]]
```

**Clickable mode**:

> A tooltip attached to specific element on the page is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A tooltip attached to a specific element on the page is displayed.
```

Users continue the scenario by clicking the highlighted element.

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/targetable_scenario.yaml', 16, 24) =]]
```

**Draggable mode**:

> A tooltip attached to specific element on the page is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A tooltip attached to a specific element on the page is displayed.
```

Seven block types are available for building step content, and a scenario step must contain at least one.
If multiple blocks are defined for a step, they are displayed one after the other.

TODO: Step screenshot with all 7 blocks available?

### Title block

Display bold, prominent titles:

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 12, 15) =]]
```

### Text block

Display regular text content:

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 15, 18) =]]
```

### Link block

Add external or internal links:

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 18, 22) =]]
```

### List block

Create bulleted lists with title:

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 30, 37) =]]
```

The `title_translation_key` property is optional.

### Media blocks

To provide data to the media block, provide absolute URLs or place your image or video files in the `public` directory and provide the path relative to it.

> To resolve the path relative to the site root, [prefix it with `/`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL_API/Resolving_relative_references#root_relative).

Reviewer 3: If this instruction is universal and reusable throughouth the docs (it seems to be), could it become a snippet?

Author: I'd keep it as is for now, if we need it in another page then we'll extract it.

#### Image block

Embed images inside the step.
You can provide alternative text by using the `alt_translation_key` property.

Assuming a `public/img/diagram.jpg` image exists, set the configuration value to `/img/diagram.jpg`.

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 22, 26) =]]
```

#### Video block

Embed video content by using the [`video` HTML element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/video):

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 26, 30) =]]
```

### Custom Twig template block

For advanced content, use custom Twig templates that allows you to fully control the styling of the block:

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml', 37, 40) =]]
```

Create the dedicated template, for example in `templates/custom_template.html.twig`.

``` html+twig
{% trans_default_domain 'app' %}

{{ 'custom_step_description'|trans }}
```

and provide the required translations in `translations/app.en.yaml`:

``` yaml

> custom_step_description: "This is a description coming from custom template"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
custom_step_description: "This is a description coming from a custom template."
```

```

## Configuration examples

### Example 1: General welcome tour

The following example showcases all the built-in block types for a `general` scenario consisting of a single step.

```yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/product_tour/config/general_scenario.yaml') =]]
```

### Example 2: Targeted feature tour with interactive steps

> The following example showcases the three interaction modes of a `targetable` scenario building an onboarding scenario for the [customizable dashboard](customize_dashboard.md):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example showcases the three interaction modes of a `targetable` scenario becomes an onboarding tour for the [customizable dashboard](customize_dashboard.md):
```

Somehow scenario...scenario seemed confusing. Please apply my comment if you think it is an improvement

Author: Used `tour`, don't think `becomes` fits here (left `building` as is)
